# USNM Bird Barcodes Data Files

This directory contains almost all of the data files that are used as either input or produced as output in all of the notebooks in this repository. Some data files were intentionally left out due to their large size, which the GitHub system cannot handle. Explanations for all files (including files that were not uploaded) can be found below.

## Original

### Specimen data files:
* *before_schindel2011.tsv*, *schindel2011.tsv*, and *schindel2017.tsv*

These files are all in TSV (tab-separated values) tabular format, and contain data about the specimens in each dataset. All files contain the same columns: "accession", "collection_date", "country", "lat_lon", "scientific_name", "specimen_voucher", "sequence_length", and "trace_count".

They are created in the notebook [Initializing the datasets](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/MikeTrizna/USNMBirdDNABarcoding2017/blob/master/Initializing%20the%20datasets.ipynb).

### Unaligned sequence data files:
* *unaligned_prior_usnm.fasta*, *unaligned_schindel2017.fasta*, and *unaligned_combined.fasta*

These files are all in [FASTA format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FASTA_format), and contain the sequences for the records from the "before_schindel2011" and "schindel2017" datasets *that have at least 2 traces*. The file *unaligned_combined.fasta* combines the sequences from these 2 datasets.

They are created in the notebook [Initializing the datasets](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/MikeTrizna/USNMBirdDNABarcoding2017/blob/master/Initializing%20the%20datasets.ipynb).

## Processed

### Aligned sequence data files
* *aligned_schindel2017.fasta*, and *aligned_combined.fasta*

### Distance files
* *aligned_combined.dist* and *annotated_distances.tsv*

*aligned_combined.dist* is a columnar distance file generated by mothur, as outlined in [Alignment and distance commands](../Alignment and distance commands.ipynb). The 3 columns in that files are "Sequence 1 ID", "Sequence 2 ID", and "Distance". *annotated_distances.tsv* is also a columnar distance files, but takes *aligned_combined.dist* and adds the additional columns "scientific_name1", "dataset1", "scientific_name2", and "dataset2". These additional columns were added using the Python pandas library, and the process is documented in the [Creating species-level distance summaries](https://github.com/MikeTrizna/USNMBirdDNABarcoding2017/blob/master/Creating%20species-level%20distance%20summaries.ipynb) notebook.

### Distance summary files
* *before_schindel2011_distance_summary.tsv*, *schindel2017_distance_summary.tsv*, *combined_distance_summary.tsv*

These files are all in TSV (tab-separated values) tabular format, and summarize the distance measures for each organism contained in the *before_schindel2011*, *schindel2017*, and *combined* datasets. The columns are "scientific_name", "count", "max_intra", and "min_inter". These files were created using the Python pandas library, and the process is documented in the [Creating species-level distance summaries](https://github.com/MikeTrizna/USNMBirdDNABarcoding2017/blob/master/Creating%20species-level%20distance%20summaries.ipynb) notebook.

### Tree file
* *bird_tree.nwk*

This file is a [Newick format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newick_format) representation of the Maximum Likelihood tree generated by the program FastTree in the notebook [Creating Supplementary Figure 1: Full Maximum Likelihood tree of USNM Bird dataset](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/MikeTrizna/USNMBirdDNABarcoding2017/blob/master/Creating%20Supplementary%20Figure%201.ipynb)
